---
id: accessability
sidebar_position: 6
title: Accessability(a11y)
author: RJonuzaj
---

## Why Accessible?

Ideal: Design complies and conforms with WCAG 2.2 (AA) accessibility standards.

- Don’t get left behind — Inclusive design is the future so feel confident your design starter is a minimum WCAG 2.1 AA compliant from the get go. Future you will be thankful!

- Less searching, more designing — Wasting time filtering through unnecessary components? We’ve included the most frequently used, battle-tested components that we use everyday.

- Deliver consistency — we’ve set you with the 8pt grid and a sensible type scale for stronger vertical rhythm and a consistent user experience.

- Reduce decision fatigue — each color and shadow is labelled for a specific purpose, with accessibility and contrast in mind.

## Design principles

WCAG 2.1 level AA requires a contrast ratio of at least 4.5:1 for small text and 3:1 for large text and UI.

- 4:5:1 contrast for small text
- 3:1 contrast for large text and UI. Sizes above 14pt bold and 18pt regular are considered large.
- UI components that are not available for user interaction (e.g. a disabled control) are not required to meet contrast requirements in WCAG 2.1
- We recommend using concise wording and simple language.

## A minimal design system starter

[Accessible v1.0 Easy Reading](https://www.figma.com/file/iEvKCckRKuQJ9AHN3Q9f9p/Accessible-Design-System-(Easy-Reading)?type=design&node-id=451-230&mode=design&t=Uhk76fllQITNSx6o-0)

## Accessible design library

[Accessible design library](https://www.figma.com/design/vUUxcseX1dr23mCfVrTcNa/Accessible-Design-System-Library-(Easy-Reading)-Beta?node-id=803-1842)